but if you take people from the inner
city like you know Compton or east LA or
places like that I bet you if you give
those kids the same tools and the same
education as you throw in that kid in
Beverly Hills with their hustle I bet
you they would outshine a lot of the
kids in Beverly Hills
all right welcome to the digital Social
Hour I'm your host Sean Kelly I'm joined
with my co-host Wayne Lewis what up what
up and our guest today Neil Patel and
thank you guys for having me absolutely
what's up brother how you doing doing
good you said it best earlier we woke up
today you know right love it be grateful
for every single day that you have yeah
absolutely gotta get it in give people
the rundown on your journey for those
that don't know you sure so uh I feel
like I'm getting old although I'm still
young I'm 37 I've been doing this for
uh call it 21 22 years right now I
started 15 and a half so however you
want to slice and dice the numbers and
[Music]
yeah I started off my career in
marketing still in marketing today I had
a lot of different businesses from
software companies Ad Agency some failed
some didn't do well you know when I was
16 when I really got my start
I gave a speech at a college house I was
a book nerd and uh my parents would
always tell me that you're not gonna
make the NBA
you know they're like do you see tons of
Indians in the Olympics and I'm like
yeah that's true you don't really don't
see tons of Indians in the Olympics and
my parents like you're good at math
you're good at science you know you're
great with school stick to something
that you naturally are great at so did
well in school I also took nighttime
college classes while I was in high
school my first class was Speech 101
gave a speech on how Google's algorithm
works and how to rank on Google and I
got a contract there for five grand a
month made them around 20 25 million
dollars in extra Revenue Google uh no no
so a guy in that class
he worked for power supply manufacturer
okay and he's just like my company's
looking for someone like you that
understands Google and can help us get
traffic bro because back then you're
talking about 20 plus years ago right
that's a long time that wasn't wrong
Yahoo was around that yeah yeah there
you go people don't even talk about
Yahoo anymore but yeah you're right and
he's just like hey my company wants to
hire someone like you and they first
actually hired me on an hourly basis for
like 100 200 an hour somewhere around
there and it was for like a block of 10
hours
they're like can you just do this for us
so then they gave their pay me five
grand a month I'm 16 five grand a month
that's 16 is a lot of times a lot yeah
for sure and I drove them in the first
year around 20 25 million dollars in
Revenue the first year first year oh you
should have been making 2 million a year
at that point I wish
the owner of that company his son had an
ad agency so then he sold my services at
the time to Blue Cross
ING Direct and Countrywide well
Countrywide was a mortgage company that
when belly under got gobbled up by a
Bank of America during the 2008 crisis
so he was giving me five grand a client
you know I'm a little kid 20 grand a
month that's a lot of money it's 20
grand a month is a lot right now I could
live off that and that's how I got my
start wow
so then from there you go where
from there started the Ad Agency at what
age a 16 still oh so wait so all this
was happening at 16 so everyone like no
this is next year yeah yeah no 16. I was
having office and everything like that
and employees going to the office before
I was going to are you still going to
school like yeah he's going to school
yeah why didn't you just drop out trust
me I wish my parents agree with that
they're like no good Indian girls gonna
marry you if you don't have a college
degree Asian parents will not let you
drop out yeah and then so my parents
wanted me to get married and they're
like no Indian girl is going to marry
you and then eventually I'm 37 now I'm
married I have two kids but when did you
get married uh that's a good question
maybe four years ago oh so it still took
a while it took a long time you could
have dropped out yeah it could have
dropped out and then my parents were at
one point like
instead of no good Indian girl is going
to marry you then it became no good
girls gonna marry you to just like get
married right and they're like we don't
care if you get married my parents don't
care like if you get married to a guy
girl we don't care just get married okay
and then I got married and my wife and I
we had two kids and nice they were exact
the moment I had my first kid my dad was
like stabbed he's like God never would
have guessed you got married or had a
kid and then Indian wife uh no she's not
Indian okay she's a mutt she's mix uh
some Korean some Chinese Mongolian some
Americans some European wow she's like a
true mutt okay so are your kids darker
skin or like my kids look white okay oh
they do they look white yeah well so and
I know they're my kids because I had
them during my coven and stuff like that
so they're my kids but
my wife looks more Asian I look Indian
um and her kids are mixed but funny
enough for me you guys Grow Up in Vegas
no I didn't go up where'd you grow up I
grew up in L.A I moved out here to when
I uh when I went to UNLV for a little
while oh cool same here Jersey so in La
I grew up in La there's a lot of
diversity in Vegas there's not as much
diversity at least from what I've seen
But in L.A like every other person is
like no one cares anything it's just
it's a big melting yeah it is I mean
Vegas is too it's a lot of kind of just
transplants here they just kind of like
that's true but I felt there was much
more of a Melting Pot in Los Angeles
right it's also more population in a
bigger Market yeah I mean now it's I
mean I think Vegas has taken over but
yeah Vegas is booming super yeah so are
you back to your journey so you started
an agency at 16 then what did you do you
do after that
during the 2008 crisis we lost a lot of
customers so when a lot of these
companies went belly up like during the
financial crisis right with homes and
all that kind of stuff subprime we lost
a lot of Revenue right and that hurt the
agency but a year or two before that we
started a software company and the
software company kept doing well so I
shifted my focus of software hey that
was a nice pivot yeah it was a nice
pivot got lucky and uh the software
company did really well we kept going we
still have it today it's called crazy
egg
my sister Amy runs it she's been doing a
great job it still grows uh sure leave
us slowly but surely
and you know did a few companies in
between some of them did well some a lot
of them failed miserably and lost a lot
of money but the ones that did well made
up for all the losses did you guys ever
IPO it's crazy egg yeah no never did
yeah yo that was probably a good thing
yeah all the shots I I don't think we
have really had the opportunity back
then to to IPO my latest company we had
the chance to IPO in this market my
latest one is the Ad Agency called NP
digital doing that for five years and
that one took off like a rocket ship for
like the 21st fastest growing company in
the United States according to Inc wow
and uh we bootstrapped it so you know
self-funded the whole thing and you know
we went from zero to
a solid like real solid nine figures in
less than five years that's insane yeah
that's not bad at all so you know and
people started hitting us up saying
would you ever consider IPO because we
had high growth and profitability we
still do that's just not me like only
thing about it is that you gotta give up
a lot of control when you um IPO and who
wants to deal with the stress I don't
know the stock going up and down some
people do I mean board members kind of
silently selling your company to the
public in a sense that's true it really
is
you you leverage you know obviously
um you're able to scale up because you
know it's a lot of money being given to
you that's true you know now your net
worth goes up and then you're able to
possibly sell at some point maybe if you
wanna
well we had a lot of buyout offers as
well I've had multiple bad offers for
majority of the company actually all the
companies that I did that did well all
had buyad offers right and I've never
really cared to sell a business like
even the current one the Ad Agency I
don't know how many bought offers we've
had way more than five maybe like seven
eight nine I don't know are you
emotionally attached to them is that why
yeah they're like babies oh okay well
there it goes this is like a kid you
know you can't give your kids you're not
doing it for the money
I love the money the money the money the
money is a scorecard saying that you're
doing well in business right I don't
care for the money like I have a Honda
Odyssey hmm so yeah but that's my choice
sure yeah and I'm saying I drive around
the Honda Odyssey all the time like when
I'm busy like working right now I have a
driver he drove me here and okay okay
well so that was a little bit
I have a Honda Odyssey well that's my
choice but I I prefer the Honda Odyssey
it's a more convenient car when you have
little kids and they hop in and out and
right life is Chill okay but I don't
care for things like big homes fancy
cars like I never dreamed about having a
Ferrari I never dreamed about having
you know a 20 000 square foot house none
of those things where I was like oh my
God like ah look at this house or look
at this neighborhood what did you dream
about
building a bigger business hmm
and then same concept same concept and
the more people you employ the bigger
you get the more Revenue you make it's
just a milestone and for me that's like
my you know drug of choice right and my
wife her dream was always donating
volunteering her time trying to change
the world
and my wife does a lot in education and
she has this thesis so you know we lived
in La for a long time
um and we have this thesis
you know and I'm not trying to talk
trash here but like you take the kids
from Beverly Hills a lot of them do well
in life and again not trying to talk
trash from people live in Beverly Hills
we even have a house there so right you
know no diss to people there but if you
take people from the inner city like you
know Compton or east LA or places like
that I bet you if you give those kids
the same tools and the same education as
you throw in that kid in Beverly Hills
with their hustle I bet you they would
outshine a lot of their kids in Beverly
Hills if you look at like averages right
like yes you're gonna get one-offs
people do better but I just believe they
have the hustle and well because the the
hunger's there when you talk about you
know uh like you said it dreaming I
think uh most kids and those inner
cities dream the most because yeah like
it's not available you know you're not
inspired by what's around you it's it's
almost like a dream yeah so yeah they're
gonna work twice as hard which most of
the athletes and most you know musicians
and artists that are successful come
from the inner cities Fox they don't
have a choice they don't have a choice
but to dream that's we Thrive off of
that yeah so speaking of Education what
are your thoughts on the public
education system do you plan on sending
your kids to public school
uh so our kids are young three in one
um my wife and I funny enough talk about
this all the time right now they go to
private school because it's preschool
and there's not really uh free schooling
when they're three years old or one
years old
um here we do have options for private
school in the future uh
uh and I tell my wife I was like let's
go back to SoCal and send our kids to
public school I was uh went to public
school I did just fine I think the
public schools there's a lot of good
ones there or we can stick around in
Vegas which I'm happy with as well and
send our kids to public school here I
like public schools I heard Vegas has
yeah heard Vegas has the worst though 49
out of all the states yeah but I think
everywhere is bad
California New York Massachusetts
uh there's a lot of good schools there
uh Seattle has some good schools it
depends what city right because even
California there's some bad schools in
California and good ones
um but like for example I grew up in
Orange County California the public
schools were decent yeah but the
curriculum is all the same they're not
even teaching us the right stuff so no
matter what school you send them to
they'll never learn taxes that's right
learn about stock they'll never learned
about how to buy a home they'll never
learned about mortgage savings and this
is what they do during a downturn he's
wrong you know the map that they're
teaching well none of us is in here has
used algebra 3 yet yeah you're so right
I did extremely well in math as a kid
the education system isn't going to be
right that's right I feel like the
ranking is based on the demographic of
where the school is actually placed
where you get kids are obviously trouble
trouble kids most of them are being
suspended they don't get the good
teachers because teachers don't want to
work in that area that ranking is it's
bias it's I think it has to do with
money so when you look at that you're
like oh no I'll send them to this school
because it's a better ranking when
really that's a paid private school they
have the money to bring themselves in a
better place so you have to live yeah
they're bringing better teachers and all
that yeah it's marketing yeah obviously
you're in that industry so you you know
you know yeah so but that's really so
like going back to my wife she loves
education and funding things education
related or uh you know anything related
to kids uh poverty food for children uh
my wife always jokes around she's like I
don't know how we survive and there's
two of us like imagine how a lot of
these parents survive when they're a
single parent I think about that too
like that's it's a hard life they don't
have money for nannies or all that kind
of stuff they got to figure out they got
to work multiple jobs provide cook clean
they're doing everything right like to
think about how kids are surviving in
that situation props to the parents
props to the kids kids and
it's how do you you know we're not here
to tell people what to do with their
money each though and anyone can do
whatever they want but like for us it
makes my wife and I happy to
give to those communities give to those
uh parents in those situations and try
to bring up the rest of the population
in a really tiny way because we don't
have enough money to really make a big
impact but we do whatever we can that's
awesome
so I hear Google is getting rid of the
cookies is that a real thing that's
right next year 20
24.
they've got the information that they
needed from us and they can carry it out
on and continue to build their AI
infrastructure
well for them they control the browser
they have analytics
history they have YouTube they have the
email so they're done with their
research and experience they got the
phone too I know a lot of us have
iPhones you probably have iPhone right I
got iPhone you got an iPhone but
majority people in the world are on
Android they're not on iOS really yeah
majority of the world around I thought
iPhone was the biggest literally no it's
not uh it's Android majority of the
world can't afford an iPhone oh
Android's a cheaper way cheaper okay I
didn't know that yeah I mean neither
interesting so you're talking about a
thousand dollar phone I was in Brazil a
few weeks ago did you know iPhone in
Brazil cost more than an iPhone in the
United States even after the currency
exchange and everything if you just look
at it USD to USD it costs more money
there than here when you know people
don't make that kind of money in Brazil
and it's an up-and-coming country right
they're booming they're growing fast but
still how the heck are people affording
it but why are they getting rid of the
cookies I was trying to like privacy
understand why also they're going back
to privacy so they took our privacy away
and okay you guys would have it back we
got pretty much everything we need from
you well there are there's a lot of
Regulation changes happening throughout
the
like gdpr and you have just different
countries getting more and more strict
on what you can do with people's data so
they're Google's making moves and so is
Apple and other players to
not just follow the laws but to be
proactive with privacy now don't get me
wrong so what does that do for the
companies who are actually you using
Google ads to gather
um the pixels and Google will be fine
they're not going to make a change
that's going to crush the revenue oh
gotcha but when Apple made the changes
to privacy or Facebook's Revenue I
remember that not Apple's Revenue yeah
yeah when Google makes a change it'll
probably Facebook's Revenue again but
won't hurt Google's revenue
so are they they're turning into
competitors
yeah it's also a way to
you know you box this a way to ding up
your competitors and Bruise them up yeah